# Obviously awesome
* Author:: [[April Dunford]]
* Reading Status:: [[Read]]
* Date Finished:: [[May 22nd, 2020]]
* Tags:: [[How to find product-market fit]] [[Book]]
* Links::
	* [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Obviously-Awesome-Product-Positioning-Customers/dp/1999023005)
	* [BLOG: Position your product for market fit](https://write.as/hmps/position-your-product-for-market-fit)
* Notes::
	* The context a product is placed in is critical. It gives the customers a frame of reference to figure out what it is, who it's for and why they should care. This is even more important if the product is innovative and new.
		* When customers encounter a product they have never seen before, they will look for contextual clues to help them figure out what it is, who it’s for and why they should care. Taken together, the messaging, pricing, features, branding, partners and customers create context and set the scene for the product. Page: 20
		* Context can completely transform the way we think about a product. Page: 20
		* Even a world-class product, poorly positioned, can fail. In the context of a concert hall, Bell is perceived as producing something that is very valuable. He’s dressed to perform. He’s surrounded by an orchestra on a beautiful stage. The program tells people what awards he has won. Whereas, when he’s playing outside a subway station, everything around him has changed. Page: 21
		* Without context to guide us, we would be overwhelmed, maybe even paralyzed by choice. The situation is even worse when we consider innovative products that people have never encountered before. Think back to the last time you saw something novel—like an iPad or a hoverboard or a drone or a cake pop. How did you make sense of it? Understanding something new is challenging because we don’t yet have a frame of reference. When we lack context for a product, the easiest way to create one is by starting with something we already. Page: 22
	* We need to be deliberate about choosing the context we place our product in. We often fail to do so, because we think it's obvious what that context is.
		* While we understand that context is important, we generally fail to deliberately choose a context because we believe that the context for our product is obvious. Page: 24
		* However, a poor category choice can turn that power against a product. If the market category we select triggers assumptions that do not apply to our product, then a good portion of our marketing and sales efforts are going to be spent battling those assumptions. Page: 51
		* Market confusion starts with our disconnect between understanding the product as product creators, and understanding the product as customers first perceive it. Page: 86
	* It's only within the correct context that customers are able to see the excellence of most products. With the correct market category, all the assumptions are working for you.
		* Most products are exceptional only when we understand them within their best frame of reference. Page: 24
		* If you choose your category wisely, all the assumptions are working for you. You don’t have to tell customers who your competitors are. It’s assumed! Page: 51
		* Market categories help customers understand what your offering is all about and why they should care. Trends help buyers understand why this product is important to them right now. Trends can help business buyers understand how a product aligns with overall company priorities, making it a more strategic and urgent purchase. Page: 53
		* Using a trend in positioning is optional (but often desirable). Position your product in a market category that puts your offering’s strengths in their best context, and then look for relevant trends in your industry. Page: 56
	* We are prone to fall into the trap of getting stuck on the product that we intended to build. Even when our product has morphed and we should find a new context for it. The minute we think about our product as a certain category, we're making some important business decisions (where to sell, how to market etc)
		* Trap 1: You are stuck on the idea of what you intended to build, and you don’t realize that your product has become something else. Page: 25
		* We set out to build something (a new dessert or a new way of doing email, for example) and then almost unconsciously position our offering in that market (“dessert” or “email”). ==But most products can be positioned in multiple different markets. Your dessert might be better positioned as a snack, and your email solution might make more sense if it were positioned as chat. But because we never thought about positioning our product deliberately, we continue to believe there is only one way to think about.== Page: 24
		* the minute you decided your product was “cake,” you made a set of critical business decisions before the flour hit the bowl. Page: 25
		* Target buyers and where you sell. You will be selling to folks looking for a fancy dessert, either directly at a bakery or food store, or to restaurants that serve fancy desserts after fancy meals. Page: 25
		* Competitive alternatives. You will be competing with other cakes, ice creams, pies and assorted desserts. Page: 25
		* Pricing and margin . You won’t be likely to charge much more than you would for other desserts,Page: 25
		* Key product features and roadmap. Your potential customers eat fancy desserts, so your product differentiators will need to appeal to them Page: 25
		* As product creators, we need to understand that the choices we make in positioning and context can have a massive impact on our businesses—for better or worse. Page: 27
		* Frequently, the product we end up with is not what we started out to build. Our email system seems more like group chat, our database seems more like an analytics platform and our cake has become muffins. This transformation happens so gradually that we, the product creators, often don’t notice it. We still see the product as the thing we set out to build. Page: 27
	* Even when you did the work to pick a category and a market for your product, the market might change and your product might become poorly positioned. This can be hard to realize because our customers often operate in a context that is quite different from ours.
		* Trap 2: You carefully designed your product for a market, but that market has changed. Page: 28
		* Sometimes a product that was well positioned in a market suddenly becomes poorly positioned, not because the product itself has changed, but because markets around the product have shifted. Page: 28
		* Our customers operate in a context that is often quite different from our startup or tech bubble. It’s easy to miss a shift that impacts nurses, housekeepers, insurance agents, restaurant workers or manufacturers while we’re drinking espresso and staring at our MacBooks in our exposed-brick, open-plan offices. Page: 29
		* We generally fail to consider other—potentially better—ways to position our products because we simply aren’t positioning them deliberately. Page: 32
	* The five components of effective positioning are:
		* **Competitive alternatives**: What would customers do if your product didn't exist?
		* **Unique attributes**: What features and capabilities do you have that alternatives lack?
		* **Value (and proof)**: What value do those features enable for the customers? The proof needs to be as fact-based as possible.
		* **Target market characteristics**: What are the characteristics of a group of buyers that lead them to really care about the value you deliver?
		* **Market category**: The market you describe yourself as being part of, to help customers understand your value.
		* **References**
			* These are the Five (Plus One) Components of Effective Positioning: Competitive alternatives. What customers would do if your solution didn’t exist. Unique attributes. The features and capabilities that you have and the alternatives lack. Value (and proof). The benefit that those features enable for customers. Target market characteristics. The characteristics of a group of buyers that lead them to really care a lot about the value you deliver. Market category. The market you describe yourself as being part of, to help customers understand your value. (Bonus) Relevant trends. Trends that your target customers understand and/or are interested in that can help make your product more relevant right now. Page: 45
			* Great positioning takes into account all of the following: The customer’s point of view on the problem you solve and the alternative ways of solving that problem. The ways you are uniquely different from those alternatives and why that’s meaningful for customers. The characteristics of a potential customer that really values what you can uniquely deliver. The best market context for your product that makes your unique value obvious to those customers who are best suited to your product. Positioning can be a big and somewhat complex concept. But don’t worry, we can make it easier by first breaking it down into its components and then working through each of those in a systematic way. Page: 3
			* If unique attributes are your secret sauce, then value is the reason why someone might care about your secret sauce. Value should be as fact-based as possible. Qualitative value claims, such as “people enjoy well-designed user interfaces,” are too subjective and customers won’t believe them. Page: 49
	* Customer often don't know nearly as much about the market and the potential solutions to a problem as you do. They likely haven't purchased a solution like yours before and are approaching it with a clean slate. Understand how they categorize your product.
		* Our customers often do not know nearly as much about the universe of potential solutions to a problem as we do. As product creators, we need to be experts in the different solutions that exist in a market, including the advantages and disadvantages of choosing them. Customers, however, have often never purchased a solution like yours before. They are approaching the solution to their problem with a clean slate and little knowledge of what “state of the art” in your domain looks like. Page: 47
		* In business software, the most common competitive alternative is a combination of general-purpose business software (spreadsheets, documents, presentations) and manual processes. Page: 47
		* Understand what a customer might replace you with in order to understand how they categorize your solution. Page: 92
		* Focus on your best customers and what they would identify as alternative solutions. Page: 93
	* If you don't have at least super-happy customers yet — hold off on positioning your product. You need to be able to find patterns in who loves your product and why.
		* What if I don’t have any super-happy customers yet? This positioning process assumes you have enough happy customers to see a pattern in who loves your product and why. Until you can see that, you will want to hold off on tightening up your positioning. Page: 68
	* How to find a position for your product
		* Find your best-fit, happiest customers and use the to understand what your product is. Most products can be many things to many different buyers.
			* we spent all our time looking for things that work, and then deciphering why. What marketing campaigns brought in the most leads? Which pieces of content were consumed the most? What events had the most attendees? Asking these questions led us to the happiest customers. Once we narrowed in on the happiest customers, we went looking for the reasons they were so satisfied while others were not. What was it about our offering that made them so happy with it, and what was it about those customers that made them such a good fit for us? Answering these questions helped us figure out what our value was, who it was resonating for and why—in other words, it helped us get a start on understanding what our positioning should be. Page: 66
			* Your best-fit customers hold the key to understanding what your product is. Page: 66
			* The first step in the positioning exercise is to make a short list of your best customers. Page: 68
			* Are your happiest customers more likely to have certain characteristics? We can guess who loves our product most and why, but frequently our guesses are incorrect. Until we have more experience with real customers, it’s better to keep our minds open and our positioning loose, and see what happens. Page: 69
			* Think of your product as a fishing net. You have a theory that your net is good for catching grouper, but you haven’t fished with it yet so you aren’t certain what you might catch. At first, you’ll want to go where there are lots of different fish and see what you pull up. If you notice over time you’re pulling in a lot of tuna, not grouper, you can move to the tuna spot and do the same amount of work to get a lot more fish. Page: 69
			* But I want to start with my product, not my customers! Your first instinct might be to consider your product and its special features and position around them. Understandable! That’s the part you understand—and possibly enjoy—the most. But that’s a trap. If we start by laying out our unique features, we are unconsciously comparing ourselves to a set of competitors. Page: 69
			* Shouldn’t we position our product for customers the same way we position it for investors? Absolutely not! Investors are investing in what your company will be in the future; customers are buying a solution to a problem they have right now. Page: 70
			* The reality is that most products can be many things to many types of buyers. Page: 85
			* It’s important to remember that although you have unique attributes that deliver value to customers, not all customers care about that value in exactly the same way. Page: 112
		* To do a positioning exercise you need to get rid of your "positioning baggage".  Give yourself a clean slate and look at your product from where it stands right now. This includes who your competitors are.
			* The positioning team needs to understand the concept of “positioning baggage” before they can attempt to let go of it. You might find that each team member has a different level of positioning baggage—founders and long-time employees might view the product from the full perspective of its history, while newer employees do not. Page: 86
			* Customers don’t always see competitors the same way we do, and their opinion is the only one that matters for positioning. Page: 90
		* Establish a list of what the competitive alternatives to your product are. Base it on what the customer sees as alternatives! Then isolate what makes you different and better than the alternatives.
			* Strong positioning is centered on what a product does best. Once you have a list of competitive alternatives, the next step is to isolate what makes you different and better than those alternatives. Page: 96
			* In this step, list all of the capabilities you have that the alternatives do not. List every attribute you can think of, even if it seems like it could be a negative to certain customers and even if you’re uncertain what its value might be. Page: 96
			* Some groups at this stage will list features that are either difficult to prove or really more of a benefit than a feature. “We provide outstanding customer service” is probably the most common of these, followed by “very easy to use.” Focus on the characteristics of your product or company that drives a potential benefit—ideally those features are based on objective facts and are provable. Page: 98
		* Concentrate on "consideration" rather than "retention".
			* Concentrate on “consideration” rather than “retention” attributes. Consideration attributes are things that customers care about when they are evaluating whether or not to make a purchase. Every product has features that you can connect directly to a goal the customer would like to accomplish right now. Retention attributes are features that aren’t as important when a customer is making an initial purchase decision, but are very important when it comes time to renew. Page: 100
		* Create a segmentation that captures the easily identifiable characteristics that makes a customer care about what you do. Make the segmentation target as narrow as possible.
			* An actionable segmentation captures a list of a person’s or company’s easily identifiable characteristics that make them really care about what you do. Page: 114
			* Target as narrowly as you can to meet your near-term sales objectives. You can broaden the targets later. I encourage teams not to get their positioning too far ahead of their business objectives. Think about your sales targets for this year and how many sales you need to make to achieve them. Could you hit your targets by focusing on only your best-fit customers? If the answer is no, you need to broaden your definition of “best-fit.” If the answer is yes, keeping your positioning focused on that segment is the most efficient use of your sales resources and the fastest and easiest path to hitting your sales targets. Page: 115